## 参考

- [sql tutorial](http://go-database-sql.org/overview.html)
- [Go database/sql教程](https://yq.aliyun.com/articles/178898?utm_content=m_29337)





## 前言

Go中使用`sql.DB`去创建statements（语句）和transations（事物），执行查询并获取结果。请注意，`sql.DB`不是一个数据库连接，也不是具体的数据映射，它是数据库接口的抽象。

`sql.DB`的主要功能：

- 打开和关闭数据库连接。
- 使用连接池管理连接。



## import数据库驱动

导入`database/sql`包和`mysql`驱动

```go
import (
  	"database/sql"
  	_ "github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql"
)
```



## 连接数据库

使用`sql.Open()`创建`sql.DB`，它返回的是`*sql.DB`。

```go
package main

import (
	"database/sql"

	"log"

	_ "github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql"
)

func main() {
	db, err := sql.Open("mysql", "root:123456@tcp(10.5.1.210:3306)/mfs_2048")
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}

	defer db.Close()
}

```

与直觉相反，`sql.Open()`不理建立任何连接到数据库，也不会验证连接参数。相反，它只是准备数据库抽象以便后面使用。当它真正被使用到去操作数据的时候才会建立第一个连接。如果想马上检查数据库连接是否可用，可以用`db.Ping()`区检查。

```go
err = db.Ping()
if err != nil {
    // do something here
}
```

虽然我们习惯在用完一个连接后去关闭`Close()`它，但是`sql.DB`被设计成长连接存在的，所以不要频发调用`Open()`和`Close()`去开关它。应该创建一个`sql.DB`对象被多个数据存储业务去公用，直到程序结束操作数据存储位置。传递公用或者将它声明为全局的，并将它保持为`Open`状态。不要在一个短期的function中`Open()`和`Close()`。

如果不将`sql.DB`保持为公用，频繁开关连接，会导致资源不够用和大量TIME_WAIT的TCP连接。



## 检索数据

GO的`database/sql`的函数名是具有意义的。

- 使用`Query`会返回结果行的集合。
- 使用`Exec`不会放回结果行的集合。



### Retrieving Result Sets

Improve this page

There are several idiomatic operations to retrieve results from the datastore.

1. Execute a query that returns rows.
2. Prepare a statement for repeated use, execute it multiple times, and destroy it.
3. Execute a statement in a once-off fashion, without preparing it for repeated use.
4. Execute a query that returns a single row. There is a shortcut for this special case.

Go’s `database/sql` function names are significant. **If a function name includes Query, it is designed to ask a question of the database, and will return a set of rows**, even if it’s empty. Statements that don’t return rows should not use `Query` functions; they should use `Exec()`.

### Fetching Data from the Database

Let’s take a look at an example of how to query the database, working with results. We’ll query the `users`table for a user whose `id` is 1, and print out the user’s `id` and `name`. We will assign results to variables, a row at a time, with `rows.Scan()`.

```
var (
	id int
	name string
)
rows, err := db.Query("select id, name from users where id = ?", 1)
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
defer rows.Close()
for rows.Next() {
	err := rows.Scan(&id, &name)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}
	log.Println(id, name)
}
err = rows.Err()
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
```

Here’s what’s happening in the above code:

1. We’re using `db.Query()` to send the query to the database. We check the error, as usual.
2. We defer `rows.Close()`. This is very important.
3. We iterate over the rows with `rows.Next()`.
4. We read the columns in each row into variables with `rows.Scan()`.
5. We check for errors after we’re done iterating over the rows.

This is pretty much the only way to do it in Go. You can’t get a row as a map, for example. That’s because everything is strongly typed. You need to create variables of the correct type and pass pointers to them, as shown.

A couple parts of this are easy to get wrong, and can have bad consequences.

- You should always check for an error at the end of the `for rows.Next()` loop. If there’s an error during the loop, you need to know about it. Don’t just assume that the loop iterates until you’ve processed all the rows.
- Second, as long as there’s an open result set (represented by `rows`), the underlying connection is busy and can’t be used for any other query. That means it’s not available in the connection pool. If you iterate over all of the rows with `rows.Next()`, eventually you’ll read the last row, and `rows.Next()` will encounter an internal EOF error and call `rows.Close()` for you. But if for some reason you exit that loop – an early return, or so on – then the `rows` doesn’t get closed, and the connection remains open. (It is auto-closed if `rows.Next()` returns false due to an error, though). This is an easy way to run out of resources.
- `rows.Close()` is a harmless no-op if it’s already closed, so you can call it multiple times. Notice, however, that we check the error first, and only call `rows.Close()` if there isn’t an error, in order to avoid a runtime panic.
- You should **always defer rows.Close()**, even if you also call `rows.Close()` explicitly at the end of the loop, which isn’t a bad idea.
- Don’t `defer` within a loop. A deferred statement doesn’t get executed until the function exits, so a long-running function shouldn’t use it. If you do, you will slowly accumulate memory. If you are repeatedly querying and consuming result sets within a loop, you should explicitly call `rows.Close()`when you’re done with each result, and not use `defer`.

### How Scan() Works

When you iterate over rows and scan them into destination variables, Go performs data type conversions work for you, behind the scenes. It is based on the type of the destination variable. Being aware of this can clean up your code and help avoid repetitive work.

For example, suppose you select some rows from a table that is defined with string columns, such as `VARCHAR(45)` or similar. You happen to know, however, that the table always contains numbers. If you pass a pointer to a string, Go will copy the bytes into the string. Now you can use `strconv.ParseInt()` or similar to convert the value to a number. You’ll have to check for errors in the SQL operations, as well as errors parsing the integer. This is messy and tedious.

Or, you can just pass `Scan()` a pointer to an integer. Go will detect that and call `strconv.ParseInt()` for you. If there’s an error in conversion, the call to `Scan()` will return it. Your code is neater and smaller now. This is the recommended way to use `database/sql`.

### Preparing Queries

You should, in general, always prepare queries to be used multiple times. The result of preparing the query is a prepared statement, which can have placeholders (a.k.a. bind values) for parameters that you’ll provide when you execute the statement. This is much better than concatenating strings, for all the usual reasons (avoiding SQL injection attacks, for example).

In MySQL, the parameter placeholder is `?`, and in PostgreSQL it is `$N`, where N is a number. SQLite accepts either of these. In Oracle placeholders begin with a colon and are named, like `:param1`. We’ll use `?` because we’re using MySQL as our example.

```
stmt, err := db.Prepare("select id, name from users where id = ?")
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
defer stmt.Close()
rows, err := stmt.Query(1)
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
defer rows.Close()
for rows.Next() {
	// ...
}
if err = rows.Err(); err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
```

Under the hood, `db.Query()` actually prepares, executes, and closes a prepared statement. That’s three round-trips to the database. If you’re not careful, you can triple the number of database interactions your application makes! Some drivers can avoid this in specific cases, but not all drivers do. See [prepared statements](http://go-database-sql.org/prepared.html) for more.

### Single-Row Queries

If a query returns at most one row, you can use a shortcut around some of the lengthy boilerplate code:

```
var name string
err = db.QueryRow("select name from users where id = ?", 1).Scan(&name)
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
fmt.Println(name)
```

Errors from the query are deferred until `Scan()` is called, and then are returned from that. You can also call `QueryRow()` on a prepared statement:

```
stmt, err := db.Prepare("select name from users where id = ?")
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
var name string
err = stmt.QueryRow(1).Scan(&name)
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
fmt.Println(name)
```



## 更新数据

### Modifying Data and Using Transactions

Improve this page

Now we’re ready to see how to modify data and work with transactions. The distinction might seem artificial if you’re used to programming languages that use a “statement” object for fetching rows as well as updating data, but in Go, there’s an important reason for the difference.

### Statements that Modify Data

Use `Exec()`, preferably with a prepared statement, to accomplish an `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`, or other statement that doesn’t return rows. The following example shows how to insert a row and inspect metadata about the operation:

```
stmt, err := db.Prepare("INSERT INTO users(name) VALUES(?)")
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
res, err := stmt.Exec("Dolly")
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
lastId, err := res.LastInsertId()
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
rowCnt, err := res.RowsAffected()
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
log.Printf("ID = %d, affected = %d\n", lastId, rowCnt)
```

Executing the statement produces a `sql.Result` that gives access to statement metadata: the last inserted ID and the number of rows affected.

What if you don’t care about the result? What if you just want to execute a statement and check if there were any errors, but ignore the result? Wouldn’t the following two statements do the same thing?

```
_, err := db.Exec("DELETE FROM users")  // OK
_, err := db.Query("DELETE FROM users") // BAD
```

The answer is no. They do **not** do the same thing, and **you should never use Query() like this.** The `Query()` will return a `sql.Rows`, which reserves a database connection until the `sql.Rows` is closed. Since there might be unread data (e.g. more data rows), the connection can not be used. In the example above, the connection will *never* be released again. The garbage collector will eventually close the underlying `net.Conn` for you, but this might take a long time. Moreover the database/sql package keeps tracking the connection in its pool, hoping that you release it at some point, so that the connection can be used again. This anti-pattern is therefore a good way to run out of resources (too many connections, for example).

### Working with Transactions

In Go, a transaction is essentially an object that reserves a connection to the datastore. It lets you do all of the operations we’ve seen thus far, but guarantees that they’ll be executed on the same connection.

You begin a transaction with a call to `db.Begin()`, and close it with a `Commit()` or `Rollback()` method on the resulting `Tx` variable. Under the covers, the `Tx` gets a connection from the pool, and reserves it for use only with that transaction. The methods on the `Tx` map one-for-one to methods you can call on the database itself, such as `Query()` and so forth.

Prepared statements that are created in a transaction are bound exclusively to that transaction. See [prepared statements](http://go-database-sql.org/prepared.html) for more.

You should not mingle the use of transaction-related functions such as `Begin()` and `Commit()` with SQL statements such as `BEGIN` and `COMMIT` in your SQL code. Bad things might result:

- The `Tx` objects could remain open, reserving a connection from the pool and not returning it.
- The state of the database could get out of sync with the state of the Go variables representing it.
- You could believe you’re executing queries on a single connection, inside of a transaction, when in reality Go has created several connections for you invisibly and some statements aren’t part of the transaction.

While you are working inside a transaction you should be careful not to make calls to the `Db` variable. Make all of your calls to the `Tx` variable that you created with `db.Begin()`. The `Db` is not in a transaction, only the `Tx` is. If you make further calls to `db.Exec()` or similar, those will happen outside the scope of your transaction, on other connections.

If you need to work with multiple statements that modify connection state, you need a `Tx` even if you don’t want a transaction per se. For example:

- Creating temporary tables, which are only visible to one connection.
- Setting variables, such as MySQL’s `SET @var := somevalue` syntax.
- Changing connection options, such as character sets or timeouts.

If you need to do any of these things, you need to bind your activity to a single connection, and the only way to do that in Go is to use a `Tx`.



## 准备语句

###Using Prepared Statements

Improve this page

Prepared statements have all the usual benefits in Go: security, efficiency, convenience. But the way they’re implemented is a little different from what you might be used to, especially with regards to how they interact with some of the internals of `database/sql`.

### Prepared Statements And Connections

At the database level, a prepared statement is bound to a single database connection. The typical flow is that the client sends a SQL statement with placeholders to the server for preparation, the server responds with a statement ID, and then the client executes the statement by sending its ID and parameters.

In Go, however, connections are not exposed directly to the user of the `database/sql` package. You don’t prepare a statement on a connection. You prepare it on a `DB` or a `Tx`. And `database/sql` has some convenience behaviors such as automatic retries. For these reasons, the underlying association between prepared statements and connections, which exists at the driver level, is hidden from your code.

Here’s how it works:

1. When you prepare a statement, it’s prepared on a connection in the pool.
2. The `Stmt` object remembers which connection was used.
3. When you execute the `Stmt`, it tries to use the connection. If it’s not available because it’s closed or busy doing something else, it gets another connection from the pool *and re-prepares the statement with the database on another connection.*

Because statements will be re-prepared as needed when their original connection is busy, it’s possible for high-concurrency usage of the database, which may keep a lot of connections busy, to create a large number of prepared statements. This can result in apparent leaks of statements, statements being prepared and re-prepared more often than you think, and even running into server-side limits on the number of statements.

### Avoiding Prepared Statements

Go creates prepared statements for you under the covers. A simple `db.Query(sql, param1, param2)`, for example, works by preparing the sql, then executing it with the parameters and finally closing the statement.

Sometimes a prepared statement is not what you want, however. There might be several reasons for this:

1. The database doesn’t support prepared statements. When using the MySQL driver, for example, you can connect to MemSQL and Sphinx, because they support the MySQL wire protocol. But they don’t support the “binary” protocol that includes prepared statements, so they can fail in confusing ways.
2. The statements aren’t reused enough to make them worthwhile, and security issues are handled in other ways, so performance overhead is undesired. An example of this can be seen at the [VividCortex blog](https://vividcortex.com/blog/2014/11/19/analyzing-prepared-statement-performance-with-vividcortex/).

If you don’t want to use a prepared statement, you need to use `fmt.Sprint()` or similar to assemble the SQL, and pass this as the only argument to `db.Query()` or `db.QueryRow()`. And your driver needs to support plaintext query execution, which is added in Go 1.1 via the `Execer` and `Queryer` interfaces,[documented here](http://golang.org/pkg/database/sql/driver/#Execer).

### Prepared Statements in Transactions

Prepared statements that are created in a `Tx` are bound exclusively to it, so the earlier cautions about repreparing do not apply. When you operate on a `Tx` object, your actions map directly to the one and only one connection underlying it.

This also means that prepared statements created inside a `Tx` can’t be used separately from it. Likewise, prepared statements created on a `DB` can’t be used within a transaction, because they will be bound to a different connection.

To use a prepared statement prepared outside the transaction in a `Tx`, you can use `Tx.Stmt()`, which will create a new transaction-specific statement from the one prepared outside the transaction. It does this by taking an existing prepared statement, setting the connection to that of the transaction and repreparing all statements every time they are executed. This behavior and its implementation are undesirable and there’s even a TODO in the `database/sql` source code to improve it; we advise against using this.

Caution must be exercised when working with prepared statements in transactions. Consider the following example:

```
tx, err := db.Begin()
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
defer tx.Rollback()
stmt, err := tx.Prepare("INSERT INTO foo VALUES (?)")
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
defer stmt.Close() // danger!
for i := 0; i < 10; i++ {
	_, err = stmt.Exec(i)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}
}
err = tx.Commit()
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
// stmt.Close() runs here!
```

Before Go 1.4 closing a `*sql.Tx` released the connection associated with it back into the pool, but the deferred call to Close on the prepared statement was executed **after** that has happened, which could lead to concurrent access to the underlying connection, rendering the connection state inconsistent. If you use Go 1.4 or older, you should make sure the statement is always closed before the transaction is committed or rolled back. [This issue](https://github.com/golang/go/issues/4459) was fixed in Go 1.4 by [CR 131650043](https://codereview.appspot.com/131650043).

### Parameter Placeholder Syntax

The syntax for placeholder parameters in prepared statements is database-specific. For example, comparing MySQL, PostgreSQL, and Oracle:

```
MySQL               PostgreSQL            Oracle
=====               ==========            ======
WHERE col = ?       WHERE col = $1        WHERE col = :col
VALUES(?, ?, ?)     VALUES($1, $2, $3)    VALUES(:val1, :val2, :val3)
```


## 错误处理

### Handling Errors

Improve this page

Almost all operations with `database/sql` types return an error as the last value. You should always check these errors, never ignore them.

There are a few places where error behavior is special-case, or there’s something additional you might need to know.

### Errors From Iterating Resultsets

Consider the following code:

```
for rows.Next() {
	// ...
}
if err = rows.Err(); err != nil {
	// handle the error here
}
```

The error from `rows.Err()` could be the result of a variety of errors in the `rows.Next()` loop. The loop might exit for some reason other than finishing the loop normally, so you always need to check whether the loop terminated normally or not. An abnormal termination automatically calls `rows.Close()`, although it’s harmless to call it multiple times.

### Errors From Closing Resultsets

You should always explicitly close a `sql.Rows` if you exit the loop prematurely, as previously mentioned. It’s auto-closed if the loop exits normally or through an error, but you might mistakenly do this:

```
for rows.Next() {
	// ...
	break; // whoops, rows is not closed! memory leak...
}
// do the usual "if err = rows.Err()" [omitted here]...
// it's always safe to [re?]close here:
if err = rows.Close(); err != nil {
	// but what should we do if there's an error?
	log.Println(err)
}
```

The error returned by `rows.Close()` is the only exception to the general rule that it’s best to capture and check for errors in all database operations. If `rows.Close()` returns an error, it’s unclear what you should do. Logging the error message or panicing might be the only sensible thing, and if that’s not sensible, then perhaps you should just ignore the error.

### Errors From QueryRow()

Consider the following code to fetch a single row:

```
var name string
err = db.QueryRow("select name from users where id = ?", 1).Scan(&name)
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
fmt.Println(name)
```

What if there was no user with `id = 1`? Then there would be no row in the result, and `.Scan()` would not scan a value into `name`. What happens then?

Go defines a special error constant, called `sql.ErrNoRows`, which is returned from `QueryRow()` when the result is empty. This needs to be handled as a special case in most circumstances. An empty result is often not considered an error by application code, and if you don’t check whether an error is this special constant, you’ll cause application-code errors you didn’t expect.

Errors from the query are deferred until `Scan()` is called, and then are returned from that. The above code is better written like this instead:

```
var name string
err = db.QueryRow("select name from users where id = ?", 1).Scan(&name)
if err != nil {
	if err == sql.ErrNoRows {
		// there were no rows, but otherwise no error occurred
	} else {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}
}
fmt.Println(name)
```

One might ask why an empty result set is considered an error. There’s nothing erroneous about an empty set. The reason is that the `QueryRow()` method needs to use this special-case in order to let the caller distinguish whether `QueryRow()` in fact found a row; without it, `Scan()` wouldn’t do anything and you might not realize that your variable didn’t get any value from the database after all.

You should only run into this error when you’re using `QueryRow()`. If you encounter this error elsewhere, you’re doing something wrong.

### Identifying Specific Database Errors

It can be tempting to write code like the following:

```
rows, err := db.Query("SELECT someval FROM sometable")
// err contains:
// ERROR 1045 (28000): Access denied for user 'foo'@'::1' (using password: NO)
if strings.Contains(err.Error(), "Access denied") {
	// Handle the permission-denied error
}
```

This is not the best way to do it, though. For example, the string value might vary depending on what language the server uses to send error messages. It’s much better to compare error numbers to identify what a specific error is.

The mechanism to do this varies between drivers, however, because this isn’t part of `database/sql` itself. In the MySQL driver that this tutorial focuses on, you could write the following code:

```
if driverErr, ok := err.(*mysql.MySQLError); ok { // Now the error number is accessible directly
	if driverErr.Number == 1045 {
		// Handle the permission-denied error
	}
}
```

Again, the `MySQLError` type here is provided by this specific driver, and the `.Number` field may differ between drivers. The value of the number, however, is taken from MySQL’s error message, and is therefore database specific, not driver specific.

This code is still ugly. Comparing to 1045, a magic number, is a code smell. Some drivers (though not the MySQL one, for reasons that are off-topic here) provide a list of error identifiers. The Postgres `pq` driver does, for example, in [error.go](https://github.com/lib/pq/blob/master/error.go). And there’s an external package of [MySQL error numbers maintained by VividCortex](https://github.com/VividCortex/mysqlerr). Using such a list, the above code is better written thus:

```
if driverErr, ok := err.(*mysql.MySQLError); ok {
	if driverErr.Number == mysqlerr.ER_ACCESS_DENIED_ERROR {
		// Handle the permission-denied error
	}
}
```

### Handling Connection Errors

What if your connection to the database is dropped, killed, or has an error?

You don’t need to implement any logic to retry failed statements when this happens. As part of the [connection pooling](http://go-database-sql.org/connection-pool.html) in `database/sql`, handling failed connections is built-in. If you execute a query or other statement and the underlying connection has a failure, Go will reopen a new connection (or just get another from the connection pool) and retry, up to 10 times.

There can be some unintended consequences, however. Some types of errors may be retried when other error conditions happen. This might also be driver-specific. One example that has occurred with the MySQL driver is that using `KILL` to cancel an undesired statement (such as a long-running query) results in the statement being retried up to 10 times.



## 处理NULL值

### Working with NULLs

Improve this page

Nullable columns are annoying and lead to a lot of ugly code. If you can, avoid them. If not, then you’ll need to use special types from the `database/sql` package to handle them, or define your own.

There are types for nullable booleans, strings, integers, and floats. Here’s how you use them:

```
for rows.Next() {
	var s sql.NullString
	err := rows.Scan(&s)
	// check err
	if s.Valid {
	   // use s.String
	} else {
	   // NULL value
	}
}
```

Limitations of the nullable types, and reasons to avoid nullable columns in case you need more convincing:

1. There’s no `sql.NullUint64` or `sql.NullYourFavoriteType`. You’d need to define your own for this.
2. Nullability can be tricky, and not future-proof. If you think something won’t be null, but you’re wrong, your program will crash, perhaps rarely enough that you won’t catch errors before you ship them.
3. One of the nice things about Go is having a useful default zero-value for every variable. This isn’t the way nullable things work.

If you need to define your own types to handle NULLs, you can copy the design of `sql.NullString` to achieve that.

If you can’t avoid having NULL values in your database, there is another work around that most database systems support, namely `COALESCE()`. Something like the following might be something that you can use, without introducing a myriad of `sql.Null*` types.

```go
rows, err := db.Query(`
	SELECT
		name,
		COALESCE(other_field, '') as other_field
	WHERE id = ?
`, 42)

for rows.Next() {
	err := rows.Scan(&name, &otherField)
	// ..
	// If `other_field` was NULL, `otherField` is now an empty string. This works with other data types as well.
}
```


## 处理未知行

### Working with Unknown Columns

Improve this page

The `Scan()` function requires you to pass exactly the right number of destination variables. What if you don’t know what the query will return?

If you don’t know how many columns the query will return, you can use `Columns()` to find a list of column names. You can examine the length of this list to see how many columns there are, and you can pass a slice into `Scan()` with the correct number of values. For example, some forks of MySQL return different columns for the `SHOW PROCESSLIST` command, so you have to be prepared for that or you’ll cause an error. Here’s one way to do it; there are others:

```
cols, err := rows.Columns()
if err != nil {
	// handle the error
} else {
	dest := []interface{}{ // Standard MySQL columns
		new(uint64), // id
		new(string), // host
		new(string), // user
		new(string), // db
		new(string), // command
		new(uint32), // time
		new(string), // state
		new(string), // info
	}
	if len(cols) == 11 {
		// Percona Server
	} else if len(cols) > 8 {
		// Handle this case
	}
	err = rows.Scan(dest...)
	// Work with the values in dest
}
```

If you don’t know the columns or their types, you should use `sql.RawBytes`.

```go
cols, err := rows.Columns() // Remember to check err afterwards
vals := make([]interface{}, len(cols))
for i, _ := range cols {
	vals[i] = new(sql.RawBytes)
}
for rows.Next() {
	err = rows.Scan(vals...)
	// Now you can check each element of vals for nil-ness,
	// and you can use type introspection and type assertions
	// to fetch the column into a typed variable.
}
```



## 连接池

### The Connection Pool

Improve this page

There is a basic connection pool in the `database/sql` package. There isn’t a lot of ability to control or inspect it, but here are some things you might find useful to know:

- Connection pooling means that executing two consecutive statements on a single database might open two connections and execute them separately. It is fairly common for programmers to be confused as to why their code misbehaves. For example, `LOCK TABLES` followed by an `INSERT` can block because the `INSERT` is on a connection that does not hold the table lock.
- Connections are created when needed and there isn’t a free connection in the pool.
- By default, there’s no limit on the number of connections. If you try to do a lot of things at once, you can create an arbitrary number of connections. This can cause the database to return an error such as “too many connections.”
- In Go 1.1 or newer, you can use `db.SetMaxIdleConns(N)` to limit the number of *idle* connections in the pool. This doesn’t limit the pool size, though.
- In Go 1.2.1 or newer, you can use `db.SetMaxOpenConns(N)` to limit the number of *total* open connections to the database. Unfortunately, a [deadlock bug](https://groups.google.com/d/msg/golang-dev/jOTqHxI09ns/x79ajll-ab4J) ([fix](https://code.google.com/p/go/source/detail?r=8a7ac002f840)) prevents `db.SetMaxOpenConns(N)`from safely being used in 1.2.
- Connections are recycled rather fast. Setting a high number of idle connections with `db.SetMaxIdleConns(N)` can reduce this churn, and help keep connections around for reuse.
- Keeping a connection idle for a long time can cause problems (like in [this issue](https://github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql/issues/257) with MySQL on Microsoft Azure). Try `db.SetMaxIdleConns(0)` if you get connection timeouts because a connection is idle for too long.